docs(platform-wallet): error-code registry for the FFI result space (#4318)
dashevo/platform: packages/rs-platform-wallet-ffi/ERROR_CODE_REGISTRY.md

the only allocation source and a new code takes 38.

## Proposed allocations (open PRs)

Not yet ABI. Numbers here may still move; they move by agreement recorded in
this file.

| Code | Name | Owning PR | Status |
| ---: | --- | --- | --- |
| 28 | *(reserved — vacated)* | — | Vacated by #4185/#4256 on 2026-08-02; RESERVED, not reissuable — the next-free frontier is the only allocation source |
| 29 | `ErrorAssetLockInsufficientFunds` | #4184 | In review — **keeps 29** (collision resolved) |
| 30 | *(reserved — vacated)* | — | Vacated by #4185/#4256 on 2026-08-02; RESERVED, not reissuable — the next-free frontier is the only allocation source |
| 32 | `ErrorTransactionBuild` | #4247 | In review (also carried by #4256) |
| 33 | `ErrorTransactionSigning` | #4256 | In review |
| 34 | `ErrorStaleReservationToken` | #4185 | In review — **moved 27 → 34** (also carried by #4256 and, post-restack, #4196) |
| 35 | `ErrorReservationTokenConsumed` | #4185 | In review — **moved 28 → 35** (also carried by #4256) |
| 36 | `ErrorReservationWalletMismatch` | #4185 | In review — **moved 30 → 36** (also carried by #4256) |

> | 37 | `ErrorShieldedInviteAlreadyClaimed` | #4204 | In review — **moved 32 → 37** (collided with #4247's `ErrorTransactionBuild`; see below) |

Reviewer: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 finding=5310f59011b8 dedupe=0e038a8a3ff78997 -->
**🔴 Blocking: Replace closed allocation owners with the active successor PRs**

This section is explicitly the allocation table for open PRs, but every named owner is now closed. The active in-repository successors are #4316 for code 29; #4310 for code 32, also carried by #4311; #4311 for code 33; #4308 for codes 34–36, also carried by #4309, #4310, and #4311; and #4313 for code 37. Their current heads retain the documented Rust discriminants and corresponding Swift/Kotlin mappings, so the numbers remain correct but ownership does not. The same stale references continue through the open-PR inventory, contested-allocation history, and provenance, which calls `97904ed2fc` the current base even though this PR's merge base is post-#4305 `b703f82ab5`. Because the README directs contributors here as the authoritative place to coordinate claims and mirror changes, linking claims to closed PRs sends updates and reconciliation work to the wrong branches. Refresh the proposed table and all dependent ownership/provenance references against the active successor heads.

<sub>source: ['codex']</sub>

| 31 | `ErrorSigningKeyUnavailable` | Merged 2026-08-04 by **#4183** (merge commit `189a3abb1c`, stacked on #4191). The signer holds no usable private key for a requested public key. Landed complete in that one commit: the Rust C-facing discriminant, Swift's `errorSigningKeyUnavailable = 31` raw case *and* its `init(ffi:)` arm *and* the typed `PlatformWalletError` case with its `init(result:)` arm, and Kotlin's `31 -> PlatformWallet.SigningKeyUnavailable`. Rule 3 now protects it — see the 31-vs-33 note below |
| 98 | `NotFound` | Sentinel — `Option` returned as an error |
| 99 | `ErrorUnknown` | Sentinel — unmapped/flattened errors |

**Next allocatable integer: 38** — 27–37 are all claimed (27 and 31 merged; 29
and 32–37 in the proposed table below; 28 and 30 reserved). **28 and 30 are
RESERVED, not free**: #4185 and #4256 vacated them when the reservation trio
moved to 34–36, but they are deliberately left unclaimed rather than
back-filled, so that the trio stays contiguous and no number is reused within a
single review cycle. Rule 1's "do not reuse a gap unless this file marks it
free" applies — this file does **not** mark 28 or 30 free, so the frontier is

> the only allocation source and a new code takes 38.

Reviewer: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 finding=8fe79917cf32 dedupe=13200cee90674ebe -->
**🔴 Blocking: Account for the merged allocations at codes 37 through 41**

The current `v4.2-dev` ABI assigns 37–40 to `ErrorDocumentNotForSale`, `ErrorDocumentPriceChanged`, `ErrorInsufficientIdentityCredits`, and `ErrorContestedNameNotTradable` from merged #4348 (`6373e00f0c`), and assigns 41 to `ErrorShieldedInsufficientBalance` from merged #4360 (`e0b8baa850`). The registry instead says 38 is the next free value and still assigns 37 to #4313's `ErrorShieldedInviteAlreadyClaimed`; #4313 remains open, is currently unmergeable, and its head still defines that variant as 37. Rebasing it onto the target would therefore produce a duplicate-discriminant collision with the shipped code 37. Add the merged 37–41 rows, advance the allocation frontier to 42, and record that #4313 must take a fresh value.

<sub>source: ['codex']</sub>

| 34 | `ErrorStaleReservationToken` | Merged 2026-08-06 by **#4308** (`438153da39`) — the reservation trio landed with the split build/broadcast surface (successor of fork-era #4185's claim) |
| 35 | `ErrorReservationTokenConsumed` | Merged 2026-08-06 by **#4308** (`438153da39`) |
| 36 | `ErrorReservationWalletMismatch` | Merged 2026-08-06 by **#4308** (`438153da39`) |
| 37 | `ErrorDocumentNotForSale` | Merged 2026-08-09 by **#4348** (`6373e00f0c`). **Took the number the fork-era shielded-invite claim held** — see the proposed table's 37 note |
| 38 | `ErrorDocumentPriceChanged` | Merged 2026-08-09 by **#4348** (`6373e00f0c`) |
| 39 | `ErrorInsufficientIdentityCredits` | Merged 2026-08-09 by **#4348** (`6373e00f0c`) |
| 40 | `ErrorContestedNameNotTradable` | Merged 2026-08-09 by **#4348** (`6373e00f0c`) |

> | 41 | `ErrorShieldedInsufficientBalance` | Merged 2026-08-11 by **#4360** (`e0b8baa850`) |

Reviewer: This is an automated mute/status message and contains no substantive review finding to validate or carry forward.

> | 41 | `ErrorShieldedInsufficientBalance` | Merged 2026-08-11 by **#4360** (`e0b8baa850`) |

Reviewer: This is an automated mute/status message and contains no substantive review finding to validate.

> | 41 | `ErrorShieldedInsufficientBalance` | Merged 2026-08-11 by **#4360** (`e0b8baa850`) |

Reviewer: This is an automated mute/status message and contains no substantive code-review finding to validate.

| 38 | `ErrorDocumentPriceChanged` | Merged 2026-08-09 by **#4348** (`6373e00f0c`) |
| 39 | `ErrorInsufficientIdentityCredits` | Merged 2026-08-09 by **#4348** (`6373e00f0c`) |
| 40 | `ErrorContestedNameNotTradable` | Merged 2026-08-09 by **#4348** (`6373e00f0c`) |
| 41 | `ErrorShieldedInsufficientBalance` | Merged 2026-08-11 by **#4360** (`e0b8baa850`) |
| 98 | `NotFound` | Sentinel — `Option` returned as an error |
| 99 | `ErrorUnknown` | Sentinel — unmapped/flattened errors |

**Next allocatable integer: 43** — 27–42 are all claimed (27, 31, 34–41
merged; 29 proposed by active #4361; 42 proposed by active #4356; 28, 30,
32 and 33 reserved). **28, 30,
32 and 33 are RESERVED, not free**: 28 and 30 were vacated when the
reservation trio moved to 34–36; 32 and 33 lapsed when their in-repo owners
(#4310, #4311) closed without merging. All four are deliberately left
unclaimed rather than back-filled, so no number is reused within a single
review cycle. Rule 1's "do not reuse a gap unless this file marks it free"
applies — this file does **not** mark any of them free, so the frontier is

> the only allocation source and a new code takes 43.

Reviewer: This is an automated mute/status message and contains no substantive review finding to validate or carry forward.

| 42 | `ErrorAssetLockInputConflict` | #4356 | In review — claimed from the frontier with complete Swift/Kotlin mappings at head `7d9be71a08` |
| 30 | *(reserved — vacated)* | — | Vacated by #4185/#4256 on 2026-08-02; RESERVED, not reissuable — the next-free frontier is the only allocation source |
| 32 | *(reserved — lapsed)* | — | Owner #4310 (successor of fork-era #4247) closed without merging; RESERVED, not reissuable |
| 33 | *(reserved — lapsed)* | — | Owner #4311 (successor of fork-era #4256) closed without merging; RESERVED, not reissuable |

> | 37→(frontier) | `ErrorShieldedInviteAlreadyClaimed` | #4313 | On hold — its claim of 37 (a 32 → 37 move; successor of fork-era #4204) was **taken by merged #4348** (`ErrorDocumentNotForSale = 37`, ABI since 2026-08-09). It holds **no number** while on hold: on revival it renumbers its Rust discriminant and Swift/Kotlin mappings to whatever this file's frontier is at that moment, recording the claim here first. The frontier (see the frontier note above) stays public until then |

Reviewer: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 finding=a45f41ceee59 dedupe=3342e25fce5cfe6a -->
**🔴 Blocking: Reserve the codes already allocated by revived PR #4313**

The frontier note says a new code takes 43, and the proposed row says #4313 is on hold, owns no number, and will claim the frontier only when revived. That is already false. Open #4313 at `484233af825cc755f4238a92d311aaafc70a4c55` defines `ErrorShieldedInviteAlreadyClaimed = 43`, `ErrorShieldedScanBudgetExhausted = 44`, and `ErrorShieldedLifecycleBusy = 45`; its Rust producers map all three variants to those FFI codes, and its pinning test asserts the 43–45 discriminants. Kotlin maps and tests all three values. Swift currently mirrors only code 43, so generated C values 44 and 45 fall through `PlatformWalletResultCode.init(ffi:)` to `.errorUnknown` and have no typed `PlatformWalletError` handling. Following the registry's current instruction would let another PR claim 43 and create the duplicate ABI allocation this file exists to prevent. Record 43–45 under active #4313, advance the frontier to 46, and mark Swift handling for 44 and 45 incomplete under rule 5.

<sub>source: ['codex']</sub>

| 29 | `ErrorAssetLockInsufficientFunds` | #4361 | In review — **keeps 29**. Lineage: fork-era #4184 → #4316 (closed unmerged) → carried live by #4361's typed asset-lock shortfall (`ErrorAssetLockInsufficientFunds = 29` at its head). **Rule 5 is satisfied as of `15aa2caea1`, and was not before it.** Kotlin has mirrored 29 since the branch's binding commit `a711c55eca` (`fromPlatformWalletNative` plus a `DashSdkErrorTest` pin); Swift carried none of rule 5's three edits until `15aa2caea1`, so 29 fell to `init(ffi:)`'s `default:` and lost its identity as `.errorUnknown` — the rule-5 failure this file exists to catch, one host typed and the other blind. That commit adds the raw case, the `init(ffi:)` arm, and the typed `PlatformWalletError` case with its `init(result:)` arm, plus an `ErrorHandlingTests` case pinning the raw value. Its Rust sibling `2eac8a897e` is what lets the code reach either host on the exact-amount funding path, which flattened the variant to `ErrorWalletOperation` (6) in `map_asset_lock_funding_result` before the blanket `From` arm could run |

> | 42 | `ErrorAssetLockInputConflict` | #4356 | **COLLIDED — must renumber to the frontier (47)**: merged #4451 shipped `ErrorMasternodeWithdrawalUnconfirmed = 42` on 2026-08-22 while this claim (complete Swift/Kotlin mappings at head `7d9be71a08`) was still in review. Merged ABI wins; this PR's three-layer mappings all move together |

Author: Fixed in `f15fa580d4` via the first option: 47 is now recorded as #4356's proposed allocation (renumbered 42 → 47 in its row, rule 1 shielding noted), the frontier inventory includes it, and the public frontier advances to 48.

> | 42 | `ErrorAssetLockInputConflict` | #4356 | **COLLIDED — must renumber to the frontier (47)**: merged #4451 shipped `ErrorMasternodeWithdrawalUnconfirmed = 42` on 2026-08-22 while this claim (complete Swift/Kotlin mappings at head `7d9be71a08`) was still in review. Merged ABI wins; this PR's three-layer mappings all move together |

Reviewer: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 reconcile=resolved -->
Resolved in `f15fa58` — _Resolve whether code 47 belongs to #4356 or remains free_ no longer present.

<sub>Auto-resolved by the review system based on the latest commit diff. If you believe this was closed in error, reopen the thread.</sub>

  a transient persister failure. Nothing in either branch's diff shows the
  contradiction. #3968 must leave 26 alone and take fresh integers for both
  persister codes.
* **#3954** (`93d0bd49b7`) numbered `ErrorShutdownIncomplete = 27`. This file
  previously called that a proposed-vs-proposed collision and said #4185's older
  claim should stand. **That was wrong, and it resolved the other way.** #3954
  was closed; its work landed as **#4268**, which merged 27 into `v4.2-dev` on
  2026-08-02. #4185 and #4256 moved their trio to 34–36 in response. Merging
  decides an ABI number; being the older open claim does not.
* **#4259** carries `ErrorSigningKeyUnavailable = 31` — the same number and name
  as #4183, i.e. inherited rather than a new allocation, like #4204. No
  conflict; recorded so the number is not double-counted. This is now moot:
  #4183 merged on 2026-08-04, so at #4259's current head `5b77dfd8f1` the 31 is
  simply the merged base's, and there is no second claim to reconcile.

PR `#3968` needs a rebase onto current `v4.2-dev` **and** fresh integers from
the frontier (**46+**, per the frontier note above). It must leave 26 alone; 27 is no longer available to it

> either (merged ABI now), and neither are the reserved 28 and 30.

Author: Fixed in `f15fa580d4` — the #3968 paragraph no longer carries a numeric copy: it defers to the frontier note as the single canonical source, with the stale "46+" incident kept as the in-text rationale for why copies are forbidden.

| 29 | `ErrorAssetLockInsufficientFunds` | #4361 | In review — **keeps 29**. Lineage: fork-era #4184 → #4316 (closed unmerged) → carried live by #4361's typed asset-lock shortfall (`ErrorAssetLockInsufficientFunds = 29` at its head). **Rule 5 is satisfied as of `15aa2caea1`, and was not before it.** Kotlin has mirrored 29 since the branch's binding commit `a711c55eca` (`fromPlatformWalletNative` plus a `DashSdkErrorTest` pin); Swift carried none of rule 5's three edits until `15aa2caea1`, so 29 fell to `init(ffi:)`'s `default:` and lost its identity as `.errorUnknown` — the rule-5 failure this file exists to catch, one host typed and the other blind. That commit adds the raw case, the `init(ffi:)` arm, and the typed `PlatformWalletError` case with its `init(result:)` arm, plus an `ErrorHandlingTests` case pinning the raw value. Its Rust sibling `2eac8a897e` is what lets the code reach either host on the exact-amount funding path, which flattened the variant to `ErrorWalletOperation` (6) in `map_asset_lock_funding_result` before the blanket `From` arm could run |

> | 47 | `ErrorAssetLockInputConflict` | #4356 | Proposed — **renumbered 42 → 47** after merged #4451 took 42 (`ErrorMasternodeWithdrawalUnconfirmed`, 2026-08-22) while this claim's complete Swift/Kotlin mappings (head `7d9be71a08`) were still in review. Merged ABI wins; all three layers move together. Rule 1 makes 47 unavailable to any other contributor while #4356 is active |

Reviewer: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 finding=ef21f5f9cebe dedupe=1b6758069467f37a -->
**🔴 Blocking: Mark #4356's code-47 implementation as pending**

Reserving 47 for active PR #4356 is correct, but this row incorrectly presents the three-layer renumber as completed. At the cited #4356 head `7d9be71a08`, Rust still defines and tests `ErrorAssetLockInputConflict = 42`, Swift still declares `errorAssetLockInputConflict = 42`, and Kotlin still maps and tests native code 42. Current `v4.2-dev` now assigns 42 to merged `ErrorMasternodeWithdrawalUnconfirmed`, so #4356 cannot merge until Rust, Swift, Kotlin, and their tests move together to 47. Record 47 as reserved while explicitly marking that implementation work as pending.

```suggestion
| 47 | `ErrorAssetLockInputConflict` | #4356 | Proposed — **47 is reserved for this active PR, but the three-layer renumber is still pending.** Merged #4451 took 42 for `ErrorMasternodeWithdrawalUnconfirmed` on 2026-08-22. At the cited #4356 head `7d9be71a08`, Rust, Swift, Kotlin, and their tests still use 42; #4356 must move all three layers together to 47 before merging. Rule 1 makes 47 unavailable to any other contributor while #4356 is active |
```

<sub>source: ['codex']</sub>

Author: Fixed in a83808c7ea — the row now records 47 as reserved with the three-layer renumber explicitly PENDING at #4356's head 7d9be71a08 (Rust/Swift/Kotlin and their tests all still on 42; merged #4451 owns 42; all three layers must move together to 47 before #4356 can merge). Wording per the suggestion, with the merged-ABI-wins lineage retained.

Reviewer: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 reconcile=resolved -->
Resolved in `a83808c` — _Mark #4356's code-47 implementation as pending_ no longer present.

<sub>Auto-resolved by the review system based on the latest commit diff. If you believe this was closed in error, reopen the thread.</sub>

the open PR renumbers. 46's near-miss went the other way: caught in review,
renumbered before merge.)

## Proposed allocations (open PRs)

Not yet ABI. Numbers here may still move; they move by agreement recorded in
this file.

**Ownership migrated 2026-08-11, then largely settled the same week.** The
fork-era PRs that originally held these allocations (#4184, #4185, #4204,
plus #4247 and #4256) were closed and recreated in-repository per repo
policy. Of the successors: #4308 **merged** (the trio, 34–36 — now in the
merged table); three others — #4316, #4310 and #4311 — **closed without
merging** (32 and 33 lapse to RESERVED; 29 is carried live by #4361, which
holds the typed shortfall today); and #4313 (the shielded-invite
claim) lost 37 to merged #4348, revived, and now holds 43–45 from the
frontier at head `0302b188ab` — see its three rows below.
Fork-era numbers remain in the collision history, which is immutable record.

| Code | Name | Owning PR | Status |
| ---: | --- | --- | --- |
| 28 | *(reserved — vacated)* | — | Vacated by #4185/#4256 on 2026-08-02; RESERVED, not reissuable — the next-free frontier is the only allocation source |

> | 29 | `ErrorAssetLockInsufficientFunds` | #4361 | In review — **keeps 29**. Lineage: fork-era #4184 → #4316 (closed unmerged) → carried live by #4361's typed asset-lock shortfall (`ErrorAssetLockInsufficientFunds = 29` at its head). **Rule 5 is satisfied as of `15aa2caea1`, and was not before it.** Kotlin has mirrored 29 since the branch's binding commit `a711c55eca` (`fromPlatformWalletNative` plus a `DashSdkErrorTest` pin); Swift carried none of rule 5's three edits until `15aa2caea1`, so 29 fell to `init(ffi:)`'s `default:` and lost its identity as `.errorUnknown` — the rule-5 failure this file exists to catch, one host typed and the other blind. That commit adds the raw case, the `init(ffi:)` arm, and the typed `PlatformWalletError` case with its `init(result:)` arm, plus an `ErrorHandlingTests` case pinning the raw value. Its Rust sibling `2eac8a897e` is what lets the code reach either host on the exact-amount funding path, which flattened the variant to `ErrorWalletOperation` (6) in `map_asset_lock_funding_result` before the blanket `From` arm could run |

Author: Independently re-verified at the PR's merge into `v4.2-dev` (merge commit `13f3720d43`, current `v4.2-dev` head) — resolving on that basis:

- **Rust** (`packages/rs-platform-wallet-ffi/src/error.rs`): `ErrorAssetLockInsufficientFunds = 29` at L237; raw-value ABI pin at L1199.
- **Swift** (`PlatformWalletResult.swift`): `case errorAssetLockInsufficientFunds = 29` (L119), `init(ffi:)` arm (L268), typed `case assetLockInsufficientFunds(String)` (L383), `init(code:message:)` arm (L578).
- **Kotlin** (`DashSdkError.kt`): typed `PlatformWallet.AssetLockInsufficientFunds` (L142), `29 ->` arm in `fromPlatformWalletNative` (L534); `DashSdkErrorTest` pin (L119).
- **Registry**: 29 sits in the merged table (crediting #4361 `699d25704a`, 2026-08-26) with no remaining proposed row; the frontier inventory reads "27, 29, 31, 34–42 and 46 merged" with the next allocatable integer unchanged at 48; the ownership-migration paragraph describes #4361 as merged with 29 ABI under rule 3.

Everything the finding asked for landed in `7ef7d13318` + `24e10a7e5b` and is now on the target branch.
